---
title: "Navigation"
---

In this lesson, you will create first **Frame** and learn different techniques to move around your designs. At first, it might feel a bit overwhelming, but soon you will perfect it.

By the end of this lesson, you will be able to freely zoom and pan the **Canvas**, and you will be in the control of what you see.

## Create a Frame

Frames usually represent single view of your design, so they should reflect the user's screen.

1. From the **Tool bar** in the top-left corner, choose **Frame** tool (**#**-like icon).
   > I highly encourage you to start using keyboard shortcuts from the very beginning. In this case, just hit {% include kbd.html command="frame" %} on the keyboard.
2. From the right panel (**Design**), under `Phone` section, choose `Android Large` frame. White rectangular frame should appear in the center of the **Canvas**.
   > We will use this kind of frame, since it's quite popular and easy-to-start-with for mobile web design.
3. Take a look at the left panel (**Layers**). You should see the newly created frame listed there.

## Zoom in & out

There are multiple ways to zoom in Figma and they depend on the device you use (e.g. mouse, trackpad) and your individual preference.

- If you're using **mouse**, just hold down {% include kbd.html command="command" %} and scroll up or scroll down.
- If you're using **trackpad**, just pinch-in or pinch-out.

## Pan

As with zooming, panning the **Canvas** can be done in multiple ways.

- If you're using **mouse**, just hold {% include kbd.html command="space" %} and then click-and-drag.
- If you're using **trackpad**, just pan (move) using two fingers (without clicking).
- If you're using **Magic Mouse**, just pan using one finger (without clicking).

## Experiment with zooming and panning

Now, when you know the methods for zooming and panning, use them to get used to it.

> None of these actions change the actual size of the newly created **Frame**. It just controls how it looks in the so-called viewport (visible part of the **Canvas**).

1. **Zoom out**, so the **Frame** in the viewport is small as mouse cursor.
2. **Zoom in**, so the **Frame** fits the viewport entirely.
3. **Zoom out** a bit, so **Frame** has some space around.
4. **Pan** around, so the **Frame** is visible in any corner of the viewport.
5. At the end, press {% include kbd.html command="zoomToFit" %} to **zoom to fit** all visible layers (we have one so far) in the viewport.

---

And that's all for this lesson. If you don't feel familiar with zooming and panning yet, just spend some more time experimenting with it.
