---
title: "Avatar background"
---

In this lesson you will create basic circular avatar background with custom color.

{% assign include-slug = page.slug %}
{% include image.html name=include-slug %}

## Create circle

1. Zoom in the `Start` frame so you can clearly see top-left corner of it. To do it pinch-out on your **trackpad** or hold {% include kbd.html command="command" %} and use **mouse scroll** (wheel).
2. Toggle **Grid** on ({% include kbd.html command="layoutGrids" %}).
3. Activate **Ellipse** tool ({% include kbd.html command="ellipse" %}).
4. Click-and-drag within a **Frame** while holding {% include kbd.html command="shift" %} to draw a perfect circle. Don't bother about exact dimensions right now.
   > You can start drawing shapes without {% include kbd.html command="shift" %} pressed – just press it before finishing the mouse drag.
5. In the **Design** panel change its position and dimensions. It should be: **X** `16`, **Y** `24`, **W** `48`, **H** `48`.

## Change circle's fill

1. Make sure newly created circle is selected.
2. In the **Design** panel, in the **Fill** section, click hexadecimal value (it might be `D9D9D9` for now) and change it to `9747FF`. Press {% include kbd.html command="enter" %} to confirm. You should get purple color.
   > Choosing right color for your UI is not a simple task. For the purpose of this guide, let's use colors I chose earlier – you would be able to change them later.

## Rename circle layer

1. Make sure you have newly created circle selected.
2. Use {% include kbd.html command="rename" %} or double-click layer's name in the **Layers** panel.
3. Rename layer to `Avatar background`.

---

In this lesson, you learned how to draw a **circle** shape and quickly change its fill.
