---
title: "Fills"
start: "https://www.figma.com/file/Kn2JUmk825y0AzG8EnWvLX"
solution: "https://www.figma.com/file/AWVxp8LTlOuVzOHVZSuJKi"
---

In this lesson you will change the color of the entire **view**, **header background**, and the **Canvas**.

## Open color picker

1. Select recently created rectangle.
2. In the **Design** panel find the **Fill** section.
3. Click on the small square in the **Fill** section representing current fill of the rectangle. So‑called **Color picker** should appear.

## Experiment with color picker

1. Click-and-drag in the square area to change **Saturation** and **Brightness/Lightness** of the selected **Hue**.
2. Change the **Hue** slider freely (the one with spectrum gradient).
3. Manipulate **Alpha** values (transparency) for selected color.
4. Check available **color models** from the 3-letter picker.
   > Unfortunately, none of these color models – despite being extremely popular – will help you find colors based on their **perceptual lightness**, convenient for accessibility-focused design.
5. Notice how input fields change while you modify values above.

> **Color theory** is extremely important topic in UI design. This guide does not cover it, but I encourage you to learn more about it if you think seriously about designing digital interfaces.

## Change rectangle's fill

1. Make sure you have `Header background` rectangle selected and **color picker** opened.
2. Make sure **Alpha** slider is maxed out. It should be `100%`.
3. In the square picker area on the top, click-and-drag circular indicator to top-left corner. It doesn't matter which color model you're using. That ensures you are picking pure white color.
4. Close **color picker** with **x icon**.

In the **Fill** section you should see white square and `FFFFFF` value with `100%` (alpha) next to it.

## Change Frame's fill

By looking on the **Canvas**, you probably can see that the `Header background` and the entire view have the same white fill. Luckily, **Frames** have fill section in the **Design** panel as well.

1. Select `Start` frame by clicking on its name or selecting it from the `Layers` panel.
2. This time, don't open color picker and just click on the color value in the **Fill** section. For now it should be `FFFFFF`.
   > This 6-character value is **hexadecimal** representation of a color. Each 2 characters are the values of **red**, **green** and **blue** components. `FFFFFF` is a pure white color.
3. Change it to `F1F1F1` and press{% include kbd.html command="enter" %}.

> **Tip:** You can type just `F1` and Figma will repeat it for each component value.

Chosen color is a very light gray but dark enough to make `Header background` visible. Toggle **Grid** off ({% include kbd.html command="layoutGrids" %}) to see it more clearly.

## Change canvas background color

If you're using Figma in so-called **Light Theme** (default) your **Canvas** color is very light and has almost no contrast with our `Start` view's background.

1. Make sure you have no layers selected. The easiest way to deselect all is to press {% include kbd.html command="escape" %} or to click on the **Canvas**.
2. In the **Design** panel, on the very top, look at the **Background** section. Depending on your active theme it might have different various like `F5F5F5`.
3. Click on this value and just type `D` and hit {% include kbd.html command="enter" %}. Figma should automatically set the value to `DDDDDD`.

Now, the background color should be a bit darker than our `Start` **Frame** so its bounds are clearly distinguished.

> **Canvas** background color has no impact on your design. This setting is mainly for a presentation purposes and work convenience.

---

In this lesson you learned the basics of changing the **fill** color of **rectangle** and a **frame**, as well as setting the **canvas** background.
